==============================================================================
NOKIA CELLPHONE FC SMALL
========================


==============================================================================
Info
====

This is a font that emulates the bitmap font used by Nokia-based cell phones.
As the name implies ("Nokia Cellphone Small"), this is the "Small" font - used
on some menus, not the data fields (which it used a "big" font).

This was done because 1) I needed to use it on some projects and 2) I saw lots
of people asking for a font like this. So I had some experience in creating
bitmap-emulating truetype fonts (that is, a truetype, vector-based font that
works as if it was a bitmap-based font) and then I decided to do this thingie.
I send a message to my Nokia 6120 cell phone with every characters that the
cell phone had and then scanned the cellphone screens to rebuild it using
fontlab 3 and 4.


==============================================================================
How to use (read it please)
===========================

This is a "bitmap" font, a truetype font that emulates real bitmap fonts (with
no antialias, that is). It should be used at the same point size (8) or
multiples thereof (16, 24, 32) to produce the best result. When used properly,
it renders as the font found on the Nokia cellphones software.

Here's some specific hints:

Photoshop 5: use it as a normal font, with no antialias. The underline is way
too low, but I can't fix it.

Photoshop 7: use it as a normal font, with no antialias. If you're
experiencing variating vertical positions for the underline, use a fixed
leading/line spacing (10, for example) instead of the "auto" mode.

Flash: use it normally. It will not produce antialias as long as you position
your textfield on "rounded" pixels, related to the main flash stage. To do
this, draw/type your textfield on stage, go to the "Info" panel, and be sure
the topmost axis is selected (little black box) and its X and Y position are
set to a position with no decimal points (e.g., 10 and 8 instead of 10.1 and
8.5). You can embed the fonts too, *NO* antialias will occur as long as you use
it on the right positions.


==============================================================================
Modifications
=============

* VERSION 2.2 - A minor correction on wordspacing which got increased on the
last version. Now it's correct again (from 5 to 4 pixels).

* VERSION 2.1 - Small additions, due to a BIG help by Panu Tuominen from
PanuWorld (www.panuworld.net). Added characters:

    Ý ý - Y/y with acute
    Å å - A/a with ring
    Ÿ ÿ - Y/y with diaeresis (Y being *done from certain clues* - not sure it's right, but it probably is)
    `   - grave accent (unicode 0060)

* VERSION 2.0 - Took it to a new metric system (more fit for "bitmap fonts"),
fixed lots of small polygon discrepancies, and fixed some Flash filling holes
bugs. I've changed the leading too; since there's no standard leading on the
cellphone menus I've chosen one of my own.

Also, since I got a new Nokia (3310) cellphone, there's ton of new characters
available that I have added to the font. There are now 164 glyphs on the Nokia
cellphone truetype font. Here's what have been added:

    Ä ä - A/a with diaeresis
    È è - E/e with grave
    Ë ë - E/e with diaeresis
    Ï ï - I/i with diaeresis
    Î î - I/i with circumflex
    Ò ò - O/o with grave
    Ö ö - O/o with diaeresis
    Ù ù - U/u with grave
    Û û - U/u with circumflex
    Ñ ñ - N/n with tilde
    Ø ø - O/o with slash/stroke
    * * - G/g with breve (turkish codepage)
    ¤ - currency sign
    Æ - latin capital letter AE
    æ - latin small letter AE
    ß - greek beta (I think)
    € - Euro

* VERSION 1.4 - Fixed the WORDSPACE and LEADING size. Thanks to Gustavo Rodrigues
(from www.escritaurbana.com.br) for pointing me my mistakes. I also fixed some
mistakes on the documentation (this file).

* VERSION 1.2 - Optimized for Macromedia Flash usage (no hollows) and with
a MAC TTF version provided by Chris Moritz (members.home.net/fieldofaction3).


==============================================================================
Copyright and stuff
===================

This is a free font/file, distribute as you wish to who you wish. You are free
to use it on a movie, a videogame, a video, a broadcast, without having to ask
my permission.

Please do not send me emails asking me to sign release forms if it require
any sort of scanning or digital compositing. It's a big chore. This license
file and a simple confirmation email should suffice as proof that you are
allowed to use it.

Of course I don't mind emails letting me know where something has been used.
Those are always gratifying!

Do NOT sell this font. It's not yours and you can't make money of it.

I don't know if the original Nokia font has some copyright which prevents
people from making new fonts based on it. I hope not. Anyways, buy a Nokia,
and I think everything's gonna be alright.

Special thanks on this version go out to Carlos Bêla (www.goldenshower.gs) and
Diogo Kalil (www.sincolor.com.br) for helping me out with the Mac version of
the font. It has been extensively tested to ensure it's as smooth (hint,
kerning, spacing and aliasing-wise) as the pc one is.


==============================================================================
Author
======

This font was done by Zeh Fernando on Fontlab 4 (www.fontlab.com) on a PC.

Zeh Fernando
zeh@zehfernando.com
www.zehfernando.com
